docs/tools/test-flakiness-detector/index.md, before:

# Test Flakiness Detector

Detect unreliable tests by running them multiple times and tracking failure rates.

## Overview

Test Flakiness Detector helps identify non-deterministic tests by running your test suite multiple times and analyzing the results.

**Status:** <img src="/icons/check-circle.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Production Ready (v0.1.0)
**Language:** TypeScript
**Tests:** 107 tests across 4 categories

## Features

- <img src="/icons/target.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Framework agnostic - works with any test command
- <img src="/icons/search.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Detects flaky tests through repeated execution
- <img src="/icons/bar-chart.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Comprehensive JSON reports with failure rates
- <img src="/icons/zap.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Zero runtime dependencies
- <img src="/icons/rocket.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> 107+ tests with 80%+ coverage

## Quick Start

```bash
cd test-flakiness-detector
npm install
npx tsx src/index.ts --test "npm test" --runs 10
```

##Links

- [Getting Started](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/getting-started)
- [CLI Usage](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/cli-usage)
- [Library Usage](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/library-usage)
- [Examples](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/examples)
- [API Reference](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/api-reference)

*Full documentation coming soon. See the [tool README](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/tree/main/test-flakiness-detector) for complete information.*

Commit message:

feat: add demo recording to scaffolding workflow
Comprehensive demo automation system that embeds recordings in both
READMEs and VitePress documentation.

Workflow changes:
- Auto-trigger on push to main when demo scripts change
- Generate demo.cast (asciinema) and demo.gif (animated GIF)
- Upload recordings to asciinema.org
- Automatically embed GIFs in tool READMEs
- Automatically update asciinema.org links
- Copy GIFs to VitePress public directory for GitHub Pages

Demo embedding locations:
- Tool READMEs: ![Demo](docs/demo.gif) with asciinema link
- VitePress docs: Demo section with embedded GIF
- Both update automatically when workflow runs

Documentation updates:
- Updated scaffold-tool.md with auto-embedding explanation
- Updated scaffold-assistant.md with detailed workflow steps
- Updated template README with embedded GIF format
- Added Demo sections to both tool VitePress docs

Files generated per tool:
- {tool}/demo.cast - asciinema recording
- {tool}/docs/demo.gif - animated GIF (~500-800KB)
- {tool}/demo-url.txt - asciinema.org URL
- docs/public/{tool}/demo.gif - copy for VitePress

No manual editing needed - workflow handles everything!

docs/tools/test-flakiness-detector/index.md, after:

# Test Flakiness Detector

Detect unreliable tests by running them multiple times and tracking failure rates.

## Overview

Test Flakiness Detector helps identify non-deterministic tests by running your test suite multiple times and analyzing the results.

**Status:** <img src="/icons/check-circle.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Production Ready (v0.1.0)
**Language:** TypeScript
**Tests:** 107 tests across 4 categories

## Features

- <img src="/icons/target.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Framework agnostic - works with any test command
- <img src="/icons/search.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Detects flaky tests through repeated execution
- <img src="/icons/bar-chart.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Comprehensive JSON reports with failure rates
- <img src="/icons/zap.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Zero runtime dependencies
- <img src="/icons/rocket.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> 107+ tests with 80%+ coverage

## Quick Start

```bash
cd test-flakiness-detector
npm install
npx tsx src/index.ts --test "npm test" --runs 10
```

## Demo

See the tool in action:

![Test Flakiness Detector Demo](/test-flakiness-detector/demo.gif)

**[▶ View interactive recording on asciinema.org](#)**

> Demos are automatically generated via GitHub Actions when demo scripts are updated.

## Links

- [Getting Started](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/getting-started)
- [CLI Usage](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/cli-usage)
- [Library Usage](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/library-usage)
- [Examples](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/examples)
- [API Reference](/tools/test-flakiness-detector/api-reference)

*Full documentation coming soon. See the [tool README](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/tree/main/test-flakiness-detector) for complete information.*
