templates/tool-repo-template/DOGFOODING_STRATEGY.md, before:

# Dogfooding Strategy: [Tool Name]

This document outlines how this tool leverages other Tuulbelt tools to demonstrate composability.

## High-Value Compositions

### 1. Test Flakiness Detector - Validate test reliability

**Why:** [Explain why test reliability matters for this tool]

**Script:** `scripts/dogfood-flaky.sh`

```bash
./scripts/dogfood-flaky.sh [runs]
# Validates all tests are deterministic
```

### 2. Output Diffing Utility - Prove deterministic outputs

**Why:** [Explain why output consistency matters]

**Script:** `scripts/dogfood-diff.sh`

```bash
./scripts/dogfood-diff.sh
# Compares outputs between runs
```

### 3. [Other Relevant Tool] - [Purpose]

**Why:** [Explain the value this composition provides]

**Script:** `scripts/dogfood-[name].sh`

```bash
./scripts/dogfood-[name].sh
# Description
```

## Implementation Checklist

- [ ] Identify high-value compositions (focus on REAL utility, not checkboxes)
- [ ] Create composition scripts (`scripts/dogfood-*.sh`)
- [ ] Update README with dogfooding section
- [ ] Update GH Pages docs (if applicable)
- [ ] Test graceful fallback when tools not available
- [ ] Document in this file

## Expected Outcomes

1. **Proves Reliability:** Tests and outputs are deterministic
2. **Demonstrates Composability:** Shows tools working together via CLI
3. **Real Value:** Each composition solves an actual problem

---

**Guidelines:**
- Only implement compositions that provide REAL value
- Don't dogfood just for the sake of dogfooding
- Focus on 2-4 high-impact compositions
- Keep tools standalone (graceful fallback)
- Prioritize: Test validation > Output consistency > Domain-specific needs

**Status:** Template - customize for your tool

Commit message:

fix(docs): add API section, StackBlitz buttons, and GitHub links
Fixed three documentation issues:

1. Output Diffing Utility README - Added API section
   - Added diff_text, diff_json, diff_binary function docs
   - Added DiffConfig and result types documentation
   - Matches structure of file-based-semaphore and templates

2. StackBlitz sections in GH Pages - Added buttons for Rust tools
   - file-based-semaphore: Replaced 'not available' note with button
   - output-diffing-utility: Replaced 'not available' note with button
   - StackBlitz DOES support Rust (READMEs were already correct)

3. GitHub repository links - Made file references clickable
   - DOGFOODING_STRATEGY.md now links to actual GitHub files
   - Updated: output-diffing-utility, file-based-semaphore, cross-platform-path-normalizer
   - Templates updated with GitHub linking guidance

templates/tool-repo-template/DOGFOODING_STRATEGY.md, after:

# Dogfooding Strategy: [Tool Name]

This document outlines how this tool leverages other Tuulbelt tools to demonstrate composability.

## High-Value Compositions

### 1. Test Flakiness Detector - Validate test reliability

**Why:** [Explain why test reliability matters for this tool]

**Script:** `scripts/dogfood-flaky.sh`

```bash
./scripts/dogfood-flaky.sh [runs]
# Validates all tests are deterministic
```

### 2. Output Diffing Utility - Prove deterministic outputs

**Why:** [Explain why output consistency matters]

**Script:** `scripts/dogfood-diff.sh`

```bash
./scripts/dogfood-diff.sh
# Compares outputs between runs
```

### 3. [Other Relevant Tool] - [Purpose]

**Why:** [Explain the value this composition provides]

**Script:** `scripts/dogfood-[name].sh`

```bash
./scripts/dogfood-[name].sh
# Description
```

## Implementation Checklist

- [ ] Identify high-value compositions (focus on REAL utility, not checkboxes)
- [ ] Create composition scripts (`scripts/dogfood-*.sh`)
- [ ] Update README with dogfooding section
- [ ] Update GH Pages docs (if applicable)
  - Use GitHub links: `[DOGFOODING_STRATEGY.md](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/blob/main/[tool-name]/DOGFOODING_STRATEGY.md)`
  - Not relative paths: `See DOGFOODING_STRATEGY.md in the repository`
- [ ] Test graceful fallback when tools not available
- [ ] Document in this file

## Expected Outcomes

1. **Proves Reliability:** Tests and outputs are deterministic
2. **Demonstrates Composability:** Shows tools working together via CLI
3. **Real Value:** Each composition solves an actual problem

---

**Guidelines:**
- Only implement compositions that provide REAL value
- Don't dogfood just for the sake of dogfooding
- Focus on 2-4 high-impact compositions
- Keep tools standalone (graceful fallback)
- Prioritize: Test validation > Output consistency > Domain-specific needs

**Status:** Template - customize for your tool
