templates/tool-repo-template/README.md, before:

# Tool Name

[![Tests](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/actions/workflows/test-all-tools.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/actions/workflows/test-all-tools.yml)
[![Tool Tests](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/workflows/Test%20All%20Tools/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/actions)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.0-blue)
![Node](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D18.0.0-brightgreen)
![Zero Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/badge/dependencies-0-success)
![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-passing-success)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

One sentence description of what this tool does.

## Problem

Describe the problem this tool solves. Why does it exist? What gap does it fill?

## Features

- Zero runtime dependencies
- Works with Node.js 18+
- TypeScript support with strict mode
- Composable via CLI or library API

## Installation

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tuulbelt/tool-name.git
cd tool-name
npm install  # Install dev dependencies only
```

No runtime dependencies — this tool uses only Node.js standard library.

## Usage

### As a Library

```typescript
import { process } from './src/index.js';

const result = process('hello world', { verbose: false });

if (result.success) {
  console.log(result.data); // 'HELLO WORLD'
} else {
  console.error(result.error);
}
```

### As a CLI

```bash
# Basic usage
npx tsx src/index.ts "hello world"

# With verbose output
npx tsx src/index.ts --verbose "hello world"

# Show help
npx tsx src/index.ts --help
```

## API

### `process(input: string, config?: Config): Result`

Process the input string and return a result.

**Parameters:**
- `input` — The string to process
- `config` — Optional configuration object
  - `verbose` — Enable verbose output (default: `false`)

**Returns:**
- `Result` object with:
  - `success` — `true` if processing succeeded
  - `data` — The processed string
  - `error` — Error message if `success` is `false`

## Examples

See the `examples/` directory for runnable examples:

```bash
npx tsx examples/basic.ts
```

## Testing

```bash
npm test              # Run all tests
npm test -- --watch   # Watch mode
```

## Error Handling

Exit codes:
- `0` — Success
- `1` — Error (invalid input, processing failure)

Errors are returned in the `error` field of the result object, not thrown.

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements for future versions:

- Feature idea 1
- Feature idea 2
- Feature idea 3

## Specification

See [SPEC.md](SPEC.md) for detailed specification.

## Demo

See the tool in action:

- **Interactive Demo**: [View on asciinema.org](#) (Coming soon)
- **Try it Online**: [![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/tree/main/tool-name)

> Demos are automatically generated via GitHub Actions. See [`.github/workflows/create-demos.yml`](../.github/workflows/create-demos.yml) for automation details.

## License

MIT — see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for contribution guidelines.

## Related Tools

Part of the [Tuulbelt](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt) collection:
- [Test Flakiness Detector](../test-flakiness-detector/) — Detect unreliable tests
- [CLI Progress Reporting](../cli-progress-reporting/) — Concurrent-safe progress updates
- More tools coming soon...

Commit message:

feat: add demo recording to scaffolding workflow
Comprehensive demo automation system that embeds recordings in both
READMEs and VitePress documentation.

Workflow changes:
- Auto-trigger on push to main when demo scripts change
- Generate demo.cast (asciinema) and demo.gif (animated GIF)
- Upload recordings to asciinema.org
- Automatically embed GIFs in tool READMEs
- Automatically update asciinema.org links
- Copy GIFs to VitePress public directory for GitHub Pages

Demo embedding locations:
- Tool READMEs: ![Demo](docs/demo.gif) with asciinema link
- VitePress docs: Demo section with embedded GIF
- Both update automatically when workflow runs

Documentation updates:
- Updated scaffold-tool.md with auto-embedding explanation
- Updated scaffold-assistant.md with detailed workflow steps
- Updated template README with embedded GIF format
- Added Demo sections to both tool VitePress docs

Files generated per tool:
- {tool}/demo.cast - asciinema recording
- {tool}/docs/demo.gif - animated GIF (~500-800KB)
- {tool}/demo-url.txt - asciinema.org URL
- docs/public/{tool}/demo.gif - copy for VitePress

No manual editing needed - workflow handles everything!

templates/tool-repo-template/README.md, after:

# Tool Name

[![Tests](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/actions/workflows/test-all-tools.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/actions/workflows/test-all-tools.yml)
[![Tool Tests](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/workflows/Test%20All%20Tools/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/actions)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.0-blue)
![Node](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D18.0.0-brightgreen)
![Zero Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/badge/dependencies-0-success)
![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-passing-success)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

One sentence description of what this tool does.

## Problem

Describe the problem this tool solves. Why does it exist? What gap does it fill?

## Features

- Zero runtime dependencies
- Works with Node.js 18+
- TypeScript support with strict mode
- Composable via CLI or library API

## Installation

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tuulbelt/tool-name.git
cd tool-name
npm install  # Install dev dependencies only
```

No runtime dependencies — this tool uses only Node.js standard library.

## Usage

### As a Library

```typescript
import { process } from './src/index.js';

const result = process('hello world', { verbose: false });

if (result.success) {
  console.log(result.data); // 'HELLO WORLD'
} else {
  console.error(result.error);
}
```

### As a CLI

```bash
# Basic usage
npx tsx src/index.ts "hello world"

# With verbose output
npx tsx src/index.ts --verbose "hello world"

# Show help
npx tsx src/index.ts --help
```

## API

### `process(input: string, config?: Config): Result`

Process the input string and return a result.

**Parameters:**
- `input` — The string to process
- `config` — Optional configuration object
  - `verbose` — Enable verbose output (default: `false`)

**Returns:**
- `Result` object with:
  - `success` — `true` if processing succeeded
  - `data` — The processed string
  - `error` — Error message if `success` is `false`

## Examples

See the `examples/` directory for runnable examples:

```bash
npx tsx examples/basic.ts
```

## Testing

```bash
npm test              # Run all tests
npm test -- --watch   # Watch mode
```

## Error Handling

Exit codes:
- `0` — Success
- `1` — Error (invalid input, processing failure)

Errors are returned in the `error` field of the result object, not thrown.

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements for future versions:

- Feature idea 1
- Feature idea 2
- Feature idea 3

## Specification

See [SPEC.md](SPEC.md) for detailed specification.

## Demo

![Demo](docs/demo.gif)

**[▶ View interactive recording on asciinema.org](#)**

> Try it online: [![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/tree/main/tool-name)

> Demos are automatically generated and embedded via GitHub Actions when demo scripts are updated.

## License

MIT — see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for contribution guidelines.

## Related Tools

Part of the [Tuulbelt](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt) collection:
- [Test Flakiness Detector](../test-flakiness-detector/) — Detect unreliable tests
- [CLI Progress Reporting](../cli-progress-reporting/) — Concurrent-safe progress updates
- More tools coming soon...
