docs/tools/cli-progress-reporting/index.md, before:

# CLI Progress Reporting

Concurrent-safe progress tracking with file-based atomic writes.

## Overview

CLI Progress Reporting provides a simple, reliable way to track progress across multiple concurrent processes. It uses file-based atomic writes to ensure data consistency, making it perfect for parallel workflows, shell scripts, and CI/CD pipelines.

**Status:** <img src="/icons/check-circle.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Production Ready (v0.1.0)
**Language:** TypeScript
**Repository:** [tuulbelt/tuulbelt/cli-progress-reporting](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/tree/main/cli-progress-reporting)

## Features

### <img src="/icons/lock.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Concurrent-Safe Operations
File-based atomic writes prevent race conditions when multiple processes update progress simultaneously.

### <img src="/icons/hash.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Multiple Independent Trackers
Track multiple operations in parallel using unique IDs. Each tracker maintains its own isolated state.

### <img src="/icons/tool.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> CLI and Library API
Use from command line for shell scripts or import as a library for TypeScript/JavaScript applications.

### <img src="/icons/database.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> State Persistence
Progress state persists across process boundaries. Pick up where you left off after crashes or restarts.

### <img src="/icons/zap.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Zero Runtime Dependencies
Uses only Node.js built-ins. No `npm install` required in production.

### <img src="/icons/beaker.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Dogfooding Validated
Validated using Test Flakiness Detector (100% pass rate, 0 flaky tests). All 93 tests are deterministic and reliable.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt.git
cd tuulbelt/cli-progress-reporting

# Install dev dependencies (for TypeScript)
npm install

# Initialize a progress tracker
npx tsx src/index.ts init --total 100 --message "Processing files"

# Update progress
npx tsx src/index.ts increment --amount 10

# Check current status
npx tsx src/index.ts get
```

## Use Cases

- **Parallel Scripts:** Track progress across concurrent shell scripts
- **CI/CD Pipelines:** Report build/deployment progress
- **Data Processing:** Monitor long-running batch jobs
- **Multi-Stage Workflows:** Track progress through multi-step processes
- **Progress Bars:** Build custom progress visualization tools

## Why File-Based?

File-based state management provides several advantages:

1. **Simple:** No external services or databases required
2. **Portable:** Works everywhere - local, CI, containers
3. **Debuggable:** State is plain JSON - inspect with `cat`
4. **Recoverable:** State persists across process crashes
5. **Concurrent-Safe:** Atomic rename operations prevent corruption

## Next Steps

- [Getting Started Guide](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/getting-started) - Installation and setup
- [CLI Usage](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/cli-usage) - Command-line interface
- [Library Usage](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/library-usage) - TypeScript/JavaScript API
- [Examples](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/examples) - Real-world usage patterns
- [API Reference](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/api-reference) - Complete API documentation

## Testing

**93 tests across 34 suites:**
- Unit tests (35 tests) - Core functionality
- CLI integration tests (28 tests) - Command-line interface
- Filesystem tests (21 tests) - Edge cases and error handling
- Performance tests (9 tests) - Large-scale operations

**Dogfooding:** Validated with Test Flakiness Detector - [Learn more](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/dogfooding)

## License

MIT License - see repository for details.

Commit message:

feat: add demo recording to scaffolding workflow
Comprehensive demo automation system that embeds recordings in both
READMEs and VitePress documentation.

Workflow changes:
- Auto-trigger on push to main when demo scripts change
- Generate demo.cast (asciinema) and demo.gif (animated GIF)
- Upload recordings to asciinema.org
- Automatically embed GIFs in tool READMEs
- Automatically update asciinema.org links
- Copy GIFs to VitePress public directory for GitHub Pages

Demo embedding locations:
- Tool READMEs: ![Demo](docs/demo.gif) with asciinema link
- VitePress docs: Demo section with embedded GIF
- Both update automatically when workflow runs

Documentation updates:
- Updated scaffold-tool.md with auto-embedding explanation
- Updated scaffold-assistant.md with detailed workflow steps
- Updated template README with embedded GIF format
- Added Demo sections to both tool VitePress docs

Files generated per tool:
- {tool}/demo.cast - asciinema recording
- {tool}/docs/demo.gif - animated GIF (~500-800KB)
- {tool}/demo-url.txt - asciinema.org URL
- docs/public/{tool}/demo.gif - copy for VitePress

No manual editing needed - workflow handles everything!

docs/tools/cli-progress-reporting/index.md, after:

# CLI Progress Reporting

Concurrent-safe progress tracking with file-based atomic writes.

## Overview

CLI Progress Reporting provides a simple, reliable way to track progress across multiple concurrent processes. It uses file-based atomic writes to ensure data consistency, making it perfect for parallel workflows, shell scripts, and CI/CD pipelines.

**Status:** <img src="/icons/check-circle.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Production Ready (v0.1.0)
**Language:** TypeScript
**Repository:** [tuulbelt/tuulbelt/cli-progress-reporting](https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt/tree/main/cli-progress-reporting)

## Features

### <img src="/icons/lock.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Concurrent-Safe Operations
File-based atomic writes prevent race conditions when multiple processes update progress simultaneously.

### <img src="/icons/hash.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Multiple Independent Trackers
Track multiple operations in parallel using unique IDs. Each tracker maintains its own isolated state.

### <img src="/icons/tool.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> CLI and Library API
Use from command line for shell scripts or import as a library for TypeScript/JavaScript applications.

### <img src="/icons/database.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> State Persistence
Progress state persists across process boundaries. Pick up where you left off after crashes or restarts.

### <img src="/icons/zap.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Zero Runtime Dependencies
Uses only Node.js built-ins. No `npm install` required in production.

### <img src="/icons/beaker.svg" class="inline-icon" alt=""> Dogfooding Validated
Validated using Test Flakiness Detector (100% pass rate, 0 flaky tests). All 93 tests are deterministic and reliable.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/tuulbelt/tuulbelt.git
cd tuulbelt/cli-progress-reporting

# Install dev dependencies (for TypeScript)
npm install

# Initialize a progress tracker
npx tsx src/index.ts init --total 100 --message "Processing files"

# Update progress
npx tsx src/index.ts increment --amount 10

# Check current status
npx tsx src/index.ts get
```

## Use Cases

- **Parallel Scripts:** Track progress across concurrent shell scripts
- **CI/CD Pipelines:** Report build/deployment progress
- **Data Processing:** Monitor long-running batch jobs
- **Multi-Stage Workflows:** Track progress through multi-step processes
- **Progress Bars:** Build custom progress visualization tools

## Why File-Based?

File-based state management provides several advantages:

1. **Simple:** No external services or databases required
2. **Portable:** Works everywhere - local, CI, containers
3. **Debuggable:** State is plain JSON - inspect with `cat`
4. **Recoverable:** State persists across process crashes
5. **Concurrent-Safe:** Atomic rename operations prevent corruption

## Demo

See the tool in action:

![CLI Progress Demo](/cli-progress-reporting/demo.gif)

**[▶ View interactive recording on asciinema.org](#)**

> Demos are automatically generated via GitHub Actions when demo scripts are updated.

## Next Steps

- [Getting Started Guide](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/getting-started) - Installation and setup
- [CLI Usage](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/cli-usage) - Command-line interface
- [Library Usage](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/library-usage) - TypeScript/JavaScript API
- [Examples](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/examples) - Real-world usage patterns
- [API Reference](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/api-reference) - Complete API documentation

## Testing

**93 tests across 34 suites:**
- Unit tests (35 tests) - Core functionality
- CLI integration tests (28 tests) - Command-line interface
- Filesystem tests (21 tests) - Edge cases and error handling
- Performance tests (9 tests) - Large-scale operations

**Dogfooding:** Validated with Test Flakiness Detector - [Learn more](/tools/cli-progress-reporting/dogfooding)

## License

MIT License - see repository for details.
